# RAMinateIn the future, STT-MRAM will achieve larger capacity and comparable read/writeperformance, but incur orders of magnitude greater write energy than DRAM. Toachieve large capacity as well as energy-efficiency, it is necessary to useboth DRAM and STT-MRAM for the main memory of a computer.**RAMinate** is a hypervisor-based support for hybrid main memory systems composedof DRAM and byte-addressable non-volatile memory (i.e., especially, STT-MRAM inmind), that reduces write traffic to STT-MRAM by optimizing page locations betweenDRAM and STT-MRAM.To our knowledge, **this is the first work fully implementing a hypervisor-basedhybrid memory system**.In contrast to past studies, our mechanism works at a hypervisor, not at thehardware or operating system level.  It does not require any special program atthe operating system level nor any design changes of the current memorycontroller at the hardware level.# OverviewWe assume that we have a physical machine with both DRAM and byte-addressable NVM.NVM is mapped to a particular address range of physical memory space.Now we create a VM on RAMinate.In the below example, a VM has 8GB RAM, which is mapped to 1GB DRAM and 7GB STT-MRAM in reality.At the 2nd line, a pseudo RAM object of Memory Backend Container, dmcon0, is created.At the 3rd line, a RAM object of Memory Backend DevMem, dram0, is created and overlaid by dmcon0.It is mapped to a free DRAM space, the 1GB address range of physical memory starting from 0x1100000000.In the same manner, at the 4th line, a RAM object, mram0, is created from a free MRAM space.As specified in the offset option, mram0 is placed after dram0 in the Container object.At the 5th line, the created pseudo RAM object is assigned to NUMA domain 0 of the VM.```qemu-system-x86_64 -enable-kvm -hda image.qcow2 -m size=8G \   -object memory-backend-container,id=dmcon0,size=8G \   -object memory-backend-devmem,id=dram0,size=1G,phy-offset=0x1100000000,offset=0,parent=dmcon0 \   -object memory-backend-devmem,id=mram0,size=7G,phy-offset=0x3080000000,offset=0x40000000,parent=dmcon0 \   -numa node,nodeid=0,memdev=dmcon0```After launching the VM, RAMinate periodically detects write-intensive memorypages and relocates them to DRAM, by monitoring and manipulating Extended PageTable (EPT) entries of the VM.Our conference paper details how it works.# PublicationThis work is presented in ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing 2016 (SoCC2016).Our paper is available [online](assets/socc2016-raminate.pdf).RAMinate: Hypervisor-based Virtualization for Hybrid Main Memory Systems  Takahiro Hirofuchi, Ryousei Takano  Proceedings in the seventh ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing 2016, pp. 112--125, Sep 2016  DOI: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2987550.2987570```@inproceedings{socc2016raminate,	author = {Takahiro Hirofuchi and Ryousei Takano},	title = {RAMinate: Hypervisor-based Virtualization for Hybrid Main Memory Systems},	booktitle = {Proceedings of the Seventh ACM Symposium on Cloud Computing},	series = {SoCC '16},	year = {2016},	isbn = {978-1-4503-4525-5},	location = {Santa Clara, CA, USA},	pages = {112--125},	numpages = {14},	url = {http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2987550.2987570},	doi = {10.1145/2987550.2987570},	acmid = {2987570},	publisher = {ACM},	address = {New York, NY, USA},	keywords = {Hybrid Memory, Hypervisor, Non-volatile Memory, STT-MRAM, Virtual Machine},}```# ContactTakahiro Hirofuchi, Ph.D.  National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)  http://grivon.apgrid.org/takahiro-hirofuchi# AcknowledgmentThis work is partially supported by the IMPULSE project of AIST and JSPS Grant KAKENHI 16K00115.